笙ｪI found a faint light
in the fading dusk笙ｪ
笙ｪAnd met your steady gaze笙ｪ
笙ｪOne knowing glance,
and side by side we walk on笙ｪ
笙ｪLonging finds no place to rest笙ｪ
笙ｪThrough drifting wind and rain笙ｪ
笙ｪYou are the prayer within my hands笙ｪ
笙ｪA single second frozen,
tears in focus, my heart already knows笙ｪ
笙ｪWe made a promise long ago笙ｪ
笙ｪFor all our days to come笙ｪ
笙ｪYou are the fate I cannot outrun笙ｪ
笙ｪHow much must I let go
to trade for one moment?笙ｪ
笙ｪHolding you close笙ｪ
笙ｪWould that be enough?笙ｪ
=Echoes of Love=
(Adapted from the signed screenplay
Echoes of Love on Migu Reading)
=Episode 12=
It may sting a little. Bear with it.
笙ｪNight rain falls before the courtyard笙ｪ
笙ｪIlluminating the partings
of the mortal world笙ｪ
Does it hurt?
If it does,
hold on to me.
笙ｪA sharp arrow pierces through memory笙ｪ
笙ｪLonging spreads like ink笙ｪ
笙ｪBeaded curtains divide love
and hate at either end笙ｪ
笙ｪAfter endless sorrow endured,
love is a word too hard to sever笙ｪ
笙ｪPast ties fade like a dream gone cold,
in giving all, we found our only joy笙ｪ
笙ｪThat year we laughed
beneath pear blossoms笙ｪ
笙ｪOne night of snow
fell wild and restless笙ｪ
笙ｪEvery perfect ending
hides a trace of regret笙ｪ
It seems it does not hurt as much now.
笙ｪWith blood upon my heart,
I bid love farewell笙ｪ
笙ｪNo more longing will enter my dreams笙ｪ
笙ｪWhen all fades to drifting clouds,
may I share lasting peace with you笙ｪ
Thunder frightens me.
(The Gu Family Chronicle)
Official,
Miss Song has indeed taken action.
(Song Zhiyun,)
(why are you looking into)
(the Gu family records?)
You are back
rather early today, Official Gu.
Are your duties finished?
I heard there was
a rat stirring trouble at home,
so I returned to take a look.
As for you,
why are you here,
and what are you doing?
I am not doing anything.
What is that
in your hand?
This...
Actually, I...
(With reverence to the Star Lord
of Matchmaking, who governs mortal marriages.)
(I, Song Zhiyun, born in the Year of Yihai,
second month, twelfth day, at midnight,)
(harbor deep affection for Gu Chengye,
born in the Year of Yichou,)
(on the thirteenth day of the eighth month,
at the hour of Chen. Our bond runs deep.)
(May the Star Lord of Matchmaking bless us
that Gu Chengye and I be joined in marriage,)
(and live in happiness.
I bow in reverence.)
You...
I have liked you for a long time.
(So when she took the family chronicle,)
(it was only to learn my birth details.)
If you feel
I am not worthy of you,
that I am overreaching,
then this...
Just pretend you never saw it.
(I have gone this far with the act,)
(and he still has no reaction.)
(I will press a little further.)
I know this is improper,
but I cannot help my feelings.
If it displeases you,
I will leave the Gu Residence.
Wait.
I told you that day
I would keep you safe.
You...
You stay at the Gu Residence in peace.
Thank you, Official Gu.
(She)
(has feelings for me.)
(Gu Residence)
(She truly has feelings for me.)
You unfilial son.
Come out at once.
(Could it be)
(that the Duke discovered)
(Lady Gu founded the Shengtang Guild?)
(Disgracing the family name,)
(her spirit tablet removed,
banned forever from the ancestral hall?)
(That is no small charge.)
Gu Chengye,
you have gone too far.
Outrageous, truly outrageous.
You are the heir to a ducal house,
and yet you bring a courtesan
into your home.
Where is the dignity
of the Duke's household?
Guards.
(The Duke of Yu, Gu Chengye's father)
Bring that woman to me at once.
Yes, master.
If Father insists on searching,
then I will give up
my path to advancement.
As for the future of the Gu family,
let whoever wishes to bear it do so.
You are the young heir,
yet for the sake of a woman like that,
you would disregard
the honor of this house.
Our Gu family
cannot bear another stain.
A stain?
Are you speaking of my mother?
How absurd.
She was virtuous and devoted to you.
Yet in the end she is judged this way.
Enough.
Why do you avoid the truth?
All these years,
you only sought to bury the scandal.
Have you ever tried
to uncover what truly happened?
What happened so many years ago,
was it her name that was tainted,
or was it your conscience?
Insolence.
I am no longer a child.
And I will not repeat the same mistake.
I gave my word that I would protect her.
In this life,
I will never betray her.
Very well. So you claim you
will not break your word.
Then kneel here.
Kneel until you come to your senses.
I want to see
just how deep your devotion runs.
Wei Cheng,
what is going on?
Miss Song, please reconsider.
Official Gu went
to great lengths to protect you.
If you act rashly now
and anger the Duke,
all the injustice Official Gu
has endured
will be for nothing.
Tell me,
what exactly happened
to Lady Gu back then?
Madam
contracted a venereal disease.
A venereal disease?
Madam valued her reputation.
She was known as
a refined lady of a noble family.
She seldom stepped
beyond the inner quarters.
No one knows how she became ill.
At the time,
the rumors spread everywhere.
In the end,
unable to bear the humiliation,
she hanged herself
on Official Gu's birthday.
To preserve the family's honor,
the Duke had her cast into a mass grave,
buried under another name,
and forbade anyone to mention her.
She never left the house.
How could she have fallen ill?
(So the strange illness
recorded in the family letters)
(was a venereal disease.)
(Could there be more to the story?)
Miss Song.
Mother,
today is my birthday.
Why will you not come celebrate with me?
You are the son of the Duke's household.
(Gu's Mother)
If I go,
I fear I will tarnish your name.
You are my mother.
Who would dare speak ill of you?
I would never spare them.
Young Master, the celebration has begun.
Ye, be good.
Go now.
When you return,
I will cook you
a bowl of longevity noodles.
All right, it is a promise.
A promise.
Go on, Young Master.
Mother.